Fillmore and Lombard are no longer being actively maintained by Yorba.

Their code is preserved here for posterity or in case anyone wants to pick up
the torch of maintainership.



    Fillmore and Lombard Audio and Video editors
    --------------------------------------------

  * Introduction

    Fillmore is an audio editor designed for the GNOME desktop environment.
    It allows you to record audio, place audio on multiple tracks, adjust
    the position of the track in the stereo track and export your project
    as a single stereo file.

    Visit http://www.yorba.org/fillmore to read about the current state of
    Fillmore's development and to make sure you're running the latest version.

    Lombard is a video editor designed for the GNOME desktop environment.
    It allows you to manipulate multiple video and audio clips and export
    your project as a single video file.

  * Installation & Licensing
    Please consult the INSTALL and COPYING files for more information.

  * Quick Start

Fillmore
    When you first run Fillmore, you will be presented with a window with three
    sections: Track Header on the left, Timeline in the middle and Library on 
    on the left.  The first task you will want to do is adjust the project 
    properties.

    From the File menu, select Settings.  This displays the Project Properties 
    dialog.  If you are recording music and want a metronome, select your time
    signature and tempo.  If you do not want a metronome, deselect the checkbox 
    "During record."
    
    Next, you will want to add audio.  You can add audio to your project in two 
    different ways.

    * Drag audio: Drag audio files from the file manager either to a track on
    the timeline or into the library.  You will only hear audio for clips that
    are on a track.

    * Record audio: Before launching Fillmore, plug a device for sound input
    into your computer.  In the Sound Preferences dialog, select this device
    as the default input device.  Launch Fillmore.  Press the big red 
    button to record.  To select which track is active for recording, select
    the desired track by clicking in the track header area next to the track.
    You can also click on the ruler to choose the time to start recording.

    Next, may want to position the audio on the timeline.  You can change the
    duration and location of the clips by dragging the clips.
    
    Once you have created your source material and are happy with it, you may
    want to export your project.  From the File menu, select Export.

Lombard
    When you first run Lombard, you will be presented with a window with three
    sections: Library window on the left, Output window on the right and timeline
    on the bottom.
    
    First, you will want to get video and audio into the project.  From the file 
    manager, drag your video or audio into the library or the timeline.
    
    Next, you will want to position your clips.  You can change the duration and
    location of the clips by dragging the clips.
    
    Once you have arranged your material and are happy with it, you may want
    to export your project.  From the File menu, select Export.

  * Contacting Yorba

    Yorba:                      http://www.yorba.org
    Fillmore project page:      http://www.yorba.org/fillmore
    Fillmore documentation:     http://trac.yorba.org/wiki/UsingFillmore0.1
    Lombard project page:       http://www.yorba.org/lombard
    Lombard documentation       http://www.yorba.org/wiki/UsingLombard0.1

    We also encourage you to join the Fillmore and Lombard mailing lists.  Send an email
    with a subject: line of "subscribe" (no quotes) to
    fillmore-request@lists.yorba.org
    lombard-request@lists.yorba.org
    
    
    Copyright 2009-2010 Yorba Foundation

